A **compiler** is a program (or collection of programs) that reads source code (typically written in a high-level language) and translates it into some other language (typically a low-level language, such as assembly or machine language, etc…).
<br> An **interpreter** is a program that directly executes the instructions in the source code without requiring them to be compiled into an executable first.
<br> __good comparison of compiler vs interpeter:__ https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38491212/difference-between-compiled-and-interpreted-languages/38491646#38491646
<br>

**steps in compiling:**
<br> First, the compiler checks your C++ code to make sure it follows the rules of the C++ language. If it does not, the compiler will give you an error (and the corresponding line number) to help pinpoint what needs fixing. The compilation process will also be aborted until the error is fixed.

<br> Second, the compiler translates your C++ code into machine language instructions. These instructions are stored in an intermediate file called an object file. The object file also contains metadata that is required or useful in subsequent steps.

<br> Object files are typically named name.o or name.obj, where name is the same name as the .cpp file it was produced from
<br>
**steps in linking:**
<br>After the compiler has successfully finished, another program called the linker kicks in. The linker’s job is to combine all of the object files and produce the desired output file (typically an executable file). This process is called linking.

<br>First, the linker reads in each of the object files generated by the compiler and makes sure they are valid.

<br>Second, the linker ensures all cross-file dependencies are resolved properly. For example, if you define something in one .cpp file, and then use it in a different .cpp file, the linker connects the two together. If the linker is unable to connect a reference to something with its definition, you’ll get a linker error, and the linking process will abort.

<br>Third, the linker also is capable of linking library files. A library file is a collection of precompiled code that has been “packaged up” for reuse in other programs.

<br>In C++, statements are typically grouped into units called functions. A function is a collection of statements that get executed sequentially (in order, from top to bottom).
